README.md, before:


<p align="center">
  <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/590234/185767386-46d86e9e-be54-480e-9d18-308b6e028fce.png" width="300px" alt="logo" />
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/hugsy/CFB/actions/workflows/build.yml"><img alt="Build main" src="https://github.com/hugsy/CFB/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg?branch=main"/></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/hugsy/CFB/actions/workflows/build.yml"><img alt="Build dev" src="https://github.com/hugsy/CFB/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg?branch=dev"/></a>
  <a href="https://discord.gg/ey49tNQg"><img alt="Discord" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-CFB-purple"></a>
</p>

## What is it?

**Canadian Furious Beaver** is a distributed tool for capturing IRPs sent to any Windows driver. It operates in 2 parts:

1. the "Broker" combines both a user-land agent and a self-extractable driver (`IrpMonitor.sys`) that will install itself on the targeted system. After installing the driver, the broker will expose a TCP port listening (by default, on TCP/1337) and start collecting IRP from hooked drivers. The communication protocol was made to be simple by design (i.e. not secure) allowing any [3rd party tool](https://github.com/hugsy/cfb-cli) to dump the driver IRPs from the same Broker easily (via simple JSON messages).

2. the clients can connect to the broker, and will receive IRPs as a JSON message making it easy to view, or convert to another format.


## Why the name?

Because I had no idea for the name of this tool, so it was graciously generated by [a script of mine](https://github.com/hugsy/stuff/tree/master/random-word).

## Kudos

 * `processhacker` for their [`phnt` header files](https://github.com/processhacker/phnt)
 * `p-ranav` for their [`argparse` library](https://github.com/p-ranav/argparse)
 * `nlohmann` for their [`json` library](https://github.com/nlohmann/json)

Commit message:

[`CFB::Driver`] Fix null input data bug (#30)
 * restored old behavior for data capture
 * fix str <-> wstr issue in utils
 * added screenshot to readme

README.md, after:


<p align="center">
  <img src="https://user-images.githubusercontent.com/590234/185767386-46d86e9e-be54-480e-9d18-308b6e028fce.png" width="300px" alt="logo" />
</p>

<p align="center">
  <a href="https://github.com/hugsy/CFB/actions/workflows/build.yml"><img alt="Build main" src="https://github.com/hugsy/CFB/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg?branch=main"/></a>
  <a href="https://github.com/hugsy/CFB/actions/workflows/build.yml"><img alt="Build dev" src="https://github.com/hugsy/CFB/actions/workflows/build.yml/badge.svg?branch=dev"/></a>
  <a href="https://discord.gg/ey49tNQg"><img alt="Discord" src="https://img.shields.io/badge/Discord-CFB-purple"></a>
</p>

## What is it?

> [!CAUTION]
> CFB is meant for research and debug purposes, it should never be used on production systems. Also BSoD may happen. You've been warned.

**Canadian Furious Beaver** is a [`ProcMon`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/sysinternals/downloads/procmon)-style tool designed only for capturing IRPs sent to any Windows driver. It operates in 2 parts:

1. the "Broker" combines both a user-land agent and a self-extractable driver (`IrpMonitor.sys`) that will install itself on the targeted system. After installing the driver, the broker will expose a TCP port listening (by default, on TCP/1337) and start collecting IRP from hooked drivers. The communication protocol was made to be simple by design (i.e. not secure) allowing any [3rd party tool](https://github.com/hugsy/cfb-cli) to dump the driver IRPs from the same Broker easily (via simple JSON messages).

2. the clients can connect to the broker, and will receive IRPs as a JSON message making it easy to view, or convert to another format.

![GUI](https://i.imgur.com/MUFYrL2.png)

![CLI](https://i.imgur.com/5MWjqLa.png)

3. IRPs (metadata, input/output buffers) can be stored to file on disk in the JSON format allowing for easy further scripting.

> [!WARNING]
> Although the CFB driver (`IrpMonitor.sys`) should not violate patchguard, it however is only self-signed and so requires [`TestSigning`](https://learn.microsoft.com/en-us/windows-hardware/drivers/install/the-testsigning-boot-configuration-option) enabled in the BCD

## Why the name?

Because I had no idea for the name of this tool, so it was graciously generated by [a script of mine](https://github.com/hugsy/stuff/tree/master/random-word).

## Kudos

 * `processhacker` for their [`phnt` header files](https://github.com/processhacker/phnt)
 * `nlohmann` for their [`json` library](https://github.com/nlohmann/json)
